[IMP] Manufacturing: work center time off update (#10869)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/manufacturing/workflows/work_center_time_off.rst

====================
Work center time off
====================

.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (manufacturing order)`

In Odoo, *work centers* are used to carry out manufacturing operations at specific locations.
However, if a work center cannot be used for some reason, work orders begin to pile up at the work
center until it is operational again.

As a result, it is necessary to make the work center unavailable in Odoo so new work orders are
routed to alternative work centers that are operational. Using Odoo's **Time Off** app, it is
possible to designate a work center as being unavailable for a set period of time. Doing so ensures
manufacturing operations can continue until the impacted work center is available again.

Configuration
=============

Before a work center can be designated as unavailable, the Odoo platform must be properly

> configured. First, it is necessary to enable :doc:`developer mode
> <../../../general/developer_mode>`. This allows the *Time Off* smart button to appear on each work
> center's *Working Hours* page.

Reviewer: Nitpick, but I prefer using the developer-mode reference instead of doc :)
```suggestion
configured. First, it is necessary to enable :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`. This allows the
*Time Off* smart button to appear on each work center's *Working Hours* page.
```

====================
Work center time off
====================

.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (manufacturing order)`

In Odoo, *work centers* are used to carry out manufacturing operations at specific locations.
However, if a work center cannot be used for some reason, work orders begin to pile up at the work
center until it is operational again.

As a result, it is necessary to make the work center unavailable in Odoo so new work orders are
routed to alternative work centers that are operational. Using Odoo's **Time Off** app, it is
possible to designate a work center as being unavailable for a set period of time. Doing so ensures
that manufacturing operations can continue until the impacted work center is available again.

Configuration
=============

Before a work center can be designated as unavailable, the Odoo platform must be properly
configured. First, it is necessary to enable :doc:`developer mode

> <../../../general/developer_mode>`. This allows the :guilabel:`Time Off` smart button to appear on
> each work center's :guilabel:`Working Hours` page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<../../../general/developer_mode>`. This allows the *Time Off* smart button to appear on
each work center's *Working Hours* page.
```
opting for italics here because you are not currently showing the smart button, nor the Working Hours page, at the moment.

> Enable developer mode by going to the :menuselection:`Settings` app, scrolling to the bottom of the
> page, and clicking :guilabel:`Activate the developer mode`, under the :guilabel:`Developer Tools`
> heading.

Reviewer 2: Since you use a reference link, and this kind of stuff falls into the 'essentials' category of content --- I don't think you need these lines anymore. I'd strongly suggest deleting them.
```suggestion
```

Next, install the **Time Off** app. This is the app used for managing time off for all resources
within Odoo, including employees and work centers.

> To do so, navigate to the :menuselection:`Apps` app, then type `Time Off` in the search bar. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, navigate to the :menuselection:`Apps` app, then search `Time Off` in the search bar. The
```
opting for this slight change of phrase because, if a reader were to only follow along with what they read, they *potentially* wouldn't know to hit 'Enter', or actually **search** for this term. They might even think the results auto-populate. Either way, I think this suggested change would circumnavigate any potential issues here.

card for the :guilabel:`Time Off` app should be the only one that appears on the page. Click the
:guilabel:`Install` button on the card to install the app.

The last step is to properly configure work centers. For this workflow, it is necessary to have at

> least two work centers: one that is made unavailable and a second that receives the work orders that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
least two work centers: one that is made unavailable, and a second that receives the work orders
```

the other cannot accept. If no second work center is configured, Odoo cannot route work orders away

> from the unavailable work center and they will pile up in its queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the unavailable work center, and they will pile up in its queue.
```

> To create a work center, navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Configuration --> Work

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a work center, navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Configuration --> Work
```

Centers --> New`.

.. seealso::
   For a full guide to work center creation, refer to the documentation on :doc:`work centers
   <../advanced_configuration/using_work_centers>`.

Make sure that both work centers have the same equipment listed under the :guilabel:`Equipment` tab.

> This ensures that operations carried out at one work center can also be performed at the other.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ensures operations carried out at one work center can also be performed at the other.
```

the :guilabel:`Reason` for the work center closure (e.g. broken equipment, maintenance, etc.),
select the affected work center as the :guilabel:`Resource`, and choose a :guilabel:`Start Date` and
:guilabel:`End Date` to specify the period during which the work center is unavailable.

.. image:: work_center_time_off/time-off-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Resource Time Off" form.

Alternative work center planning
================================

Once a work center is within its specified time-off period, work orders sent to it can be
automatically routed to an alternative work center using the *Plan* button.

Begin by creating a new manufacturing order (MO), by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app
--> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders --> New`. On the |MO| form, specify a :guilabel:`Product`
that uses the unavailable work center for one of its operations. Click :guilabel:`Confirm` to
confirm the |MO|.

On the confirmed |MO|, select the :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab. By default, the unavailable work
center is specified in the :guilabel:`Work Center` column. There is also a :guilabel:`Plan` button
at the top left of the page.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Click :guilabel:`Plan`, and the work center listed in the :guilabel:`Work Center` column of the
:guilabel:`Work Orders` tab is automatically changed to the alternative work center.
```

.. figure:: work_center_time_off/before-planning.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Before clicking "Plan", the work order is scheduled at "Main Assembly Line".

>    Before clicking "Plan", the work order is scheduled at "Main Assembly Line".

Reviewer: Can use formatting in figure captions (just not alt tags)
```suggestion
   Before clicking :guilabel:`Plan`, the work order is scheduled at :guilabel:`Main Assembly Line`.
```

> Click :guilabel:`Plan`, and the work center listed in the :guilabel:`Work Center` column of the
> :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab is automatically changed to the alternative work center.

Reviewer: Suggestion to move this before the images :)
```suggestion
```

.. figure:: work_center_time_off/after-planning.png
   :align: center
   :alt: After clicking "Plan", the work order is rescheduled at "Alternative Assembly Line".

>    After clicking "Plan", the work order is rescheduled at "Alternative Assembly Line".

Reviewer: Can use formatting in figure captions (just not alt tags)
```suggestion
   After clicking :guilabel:`Plan`, the work order is rescheduled at :guilabel:`Alternative Assembly
   Line`.
```

Add time off for a work center
==============================

With configuration completed, time off can now be assigned to a work center. Begin by navigating to
:menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Configuration --> Work Centers`, and selecting the affected
work center. Click the :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Internal link` button on the right side of
the working hours drop-down menu, to open the working hours page for the work center.

.. image:: work_center_time_off/working-hours-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Working Hours "External link" button on the work center form.

The working hours page displays the standard working hours for the work center. With developer mode
activated, a :icon:`fa-plane` :guilabel:`Time Off` smart button appears at the top of the page.
Click it to open the :guilabel:`Resource Time Off` page.

On this page, click :guilabel:`New` to configure a new time-off entry. On the time-off form, note
the :guilabel:`Reason` for the work center closure (broken, maintenance, etc.), select the affected
work center as the :guilabel:`Resource`, and choose a :guilabel:`Start Date` and :guilabel:`End

> Date` to specify the period during which the work center will be unavailable.

Reviewer 3: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/00fc27f9-5c63-4890-be27-b6b80a8889d1)
I noticed the Time Off Request field is not mentioned. I think this might be good to include since you mention the Time Off app, and it pulls all the available requests that can be selected in this line. I'll be honest- I am not 100% sure of the ramifications or benefits of selecting this, but since it's there I feel it would be good to add to these instructions.

Author: That field is not relevant to this workflow.

.. image:: work_center_time_off/time-off-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Resource Time Off" form.

Alternative work center planning
================================

Once a work center is within its specified time-off period, work orders sent to it can be
automatically routed to an alternative work center using the :guilabel:`Plan` button.

> Begin by creating a new manufacturing order by selecting :menuselection:`Operations -->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Begin by creating a new manufacturing order by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Operations -->
```

> Manufacturing Orders --> New`. On the manufacturing order form, specify a :guilabel:`Product` that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Manufacturing Orders`, then click :guilabel:`New`. On the manufacturing order form, specify a :guilabel:`Product` that
```

uses the unavailable work center for one of its operations. Click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the

> work order.

Reviewer 3: Is this a manufacturing order, not a work order?

On the confirmed work order, select the :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab. By default, the unavailable

> work center is specified in the :guilabel:`Work Center` column. There is also a purple

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
work center is specified in the :guilabel:`Work Center` column. There is also a 
```

:guilabel:`Plan` button at the top left of the page.

.. figure:: work_center_time_off/before-planning.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Before clicking "Plan", the work order is scheduled at "Main Assembly Line".

>    Before clicking "Plan", the work order is scheduled at "Main Assembly Line".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   In this example, before clicking "Plan", the work order is scheduled at "Main Assembly Line".
```
I just feel like tit should be stated that this is an example being used- I didn't want to add an example block, so this was just an idea.

Reviewer 3: Alternatively, you can make this more vague and less specific, and state that the work center shown is unavailable during this time, and when you click Plan, the work center changes to the alternate one.

Add time off for a work center
==============================

With configuration completed, time off can now be assigned to a work center. Begin by navigating to
:menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Configuration --> Work Centers`, and selecting the affected

> work center. Click the :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Internal link` button on the right side of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
work center. Click the :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`(Internal link)` button on the right side of
```
OPTIONAL: suggesting the use of parentheticals here because, since the name of the arrow icon is *technically* 'Internal Link' -- but it **only** appears on the tooltip -- I think the use of parentheticals might be preferred.

the :guilabel:`Working Hours` drop-down menu, to open the working hours page for the work center.

.. image:: work_center_time_off/working-hours-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Working Hours "External link" button on the work center form.

The working hours page displays the standard working hours for the work center. With developer mode
activated, a :icon:`fa-plane` :guilabel:`Time Off` smart button appears at the top of the page.
Click it to open the :guilabel:`Resource Time Off` page.

On this page, click :guilabel:`New` to configure a new time-off entry. On the time-off form, note

> the :guilabel:`Reason` for the work center closure (broken equipment, maintenance, etc.), select the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the :guilabel:`Reason` for the work center closure (e.g., broken equipment, maintenance, etc.), select the
```

affected work center as the :guilabel:`Resource`, and choose a :guilabel:`Start Date` and

> :guilabel:`End Date` to specify the period during which the work center will be unavailable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`End Date` to specify the period during which the work center is unavailable.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: do you feel like it would be beneficial to mention the 'Time Off Request' field, Working Hourse field, Work Entry Type field...?

Author: No, those fields aren't specific to this workflow.

.. image:: work_center_time_off/time-off-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Resource Time Off" form.

Alternative work center planning
================================

Once a work center is within its specified time-off period, work orders sent to it can be

> automatically routed to an alternative work center using the :guilabel:`Plan` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automatically routed to an alternative work center using the *Plan* button.
```

Begin by creating a new manufacturing order (MO), by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app
--> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders --> New`. On the |MO| form, specify a :guilabel:`Product`
that uses the unavailable work center for one of its operations. Click :guilabel:`Confirm` to
confirm the |MO|.

On the confirmed |MO|, select the :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab. By default, the unavailable work
center is specified in the :guilabel:`Work Center` column. There is also a :guilabel:`Plan` button
at the top left of the page.

.. figure:: work_center_time_off/before-planning.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Before clicking "Plan", the work order is scheduled at "Main Assembly Line".

   Before clicking "Plan", the work order is scheduled at "Main Assembly Line".

Click :guilabel:`Plan`, and the work center listed in the :guilabel:`Work Center` column of the
:guilabel:`Work Orders` tab is automatically changed to the alternative work center.

.. figure:: work_center_time_off/after-planning.png
   :align: center
   :alt: After clicking "Plan", the work order is rescheduled at "Alternative Assembly Line".

>    After clicking "Plan", the work order is rescheduled at "Alternative Assembly Line".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   After clicking "Plan," the work order is rescheduled at "Alternative Assembly Line."
```

> Once the time-off period for the unavailable work center ends, Odoo recognizes that the work center

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the time-off period for the unavailable work center ends, Odoo recognizes the work center
```
